# Sibelius documentation

this is techincal about how sibelius munus and buttons work
you must not click too fast or it may crash
save your work in different files
shift + mouse draging allows t oselect a group of elements, verz useful to remove manz text items.


triple click gets all score, a double click only gets a local area
ctrl a selects all
ctrl z cancels
ctrl y redo

note: CTRL + triple clicks makes a different selection. I think it is a system selection, and it allows key transposition when you transpose

guitar tabs:
once triple click ctrl + alt click on guitar tab will create guitar tab

shift t opens transposition
note: photoscore can also do transposition and it behaves differently by default than sibelius

to remove pages select them with the mouse then there is a delete staff on the home menu

to merge pages, you can go in layout, either change layout margin etc using the hidden small corner arrow

or there is a unlock  button to the right of the menu bar

right click, changing the voice (to 3) will make guitar rythm more readable


----------

detailed example:
1. scan music in photoscore, if the music tracks are not the same on each page, you have to change each track manually on each page.
save file as opt
be sure to remove the noisy text that was scanned or it will overlap with the edited score
2. open in sibelius, and save as a .sib file
menu Home / Add or remove / and add an acoustic guitar with rythm, move it down

there is another button next to add/remove, it is to changed an instrument for an existing unnamed staff. ANd zou can change it for example to violin1.

menu layout
use CTRL + A to select the entire score, and press the unlock format button
it will prevent staves from overlapping

now triple click the second row to select all pages for just one row.
ctrl + alt click on the guitar tab and it will copy the track
triple click and then right click and zou can change the voice, it seems the voice 4 is best to read the tablature track
in layout, you can change the space between staves and between systems to have more rows per page, but if zou have too small space, the rows will overlap. You can also change the normal size of a staff so that you have more rows per page but all scalled smaller

when done, you can export to pdf, put a clear file name to remember the edition


---

how to change E sharp and B sharp into real notes
to right of siblius, search advanced filter
choose pitch and select.
then press enter and it will rewrite the note

how to remove a measure
control click makes selection violet then on can shift select. Delete key in this more removes totally

one can install plugins
but they are hard to use
I could not use easily the out of range plugin
http://www.sibelius.com/download/plugins/index.html
